> [!NOTE]
> This documentation page is incomplete.
>
> Feel free to contribute by [expanding it](https://github.com/mupen64/mupen64-rr-lua).

This page contains a breakdown of all menu actions along with their functionality and is hierarchically structured like the in-app menus.

# File

## Load ROM...

Starts emulation with the specified ROM.

If the ROM is invalid or any other errors preventing an emulation start happen, an error dialog will be shown.

## Close ROM

Stops emulation.

If tasks such as movie playback, recording, video capture, or trace logging are running, you will be prompted before the close action proceeds.

## Reset ROM

Resets emulation, remaining on the same ROM as before.

## Refresh ROM List

Refreshes the ROM list.

## Recent ROMs

Contains a list of the most recently used ROMs, with the latest ones at the top.

The list can be frozen, which prevents it from being changed, or reset, which clears all items.

## Exit

Exits the program.

# Emulation

## Pause

Pauses or unpauses emulation.

## Speed Down

Decreases the emulator's speed by 5%.

## Speed Up

Increases the emulator's speed by 5%.

## Reset Speed

Resets the emulator's speed to 100%.

## Fast-Forward

Toggles unlimited emulation speed.

## GS Button

Toggles the GameShark trigger button. Only has an effect when cheats utilizing
the GameShark button state are active.

## Frame Advance

Advances the emulator by one frame.

## Multi-Frame Advance

Advances the emulator by the amount of frames specified.

If the amount of frames to advance by is negative, the emulator will try to go
backwards in time. This currently requires a movie to be active.

## Multi-Frame Advance -1

Decrements the Multi-Frame Advance index by 1.

## Multi-Frame Advance +1

Increments the Multi-Frame Advance index by 1.

## Multi-Frame Advance Reset

Sets the Multi-Frame Advance index to 0.

## Save State

### Save Current Slot

Saves a state to the currently selected slot.

### Save as File

Saves a state to a file.

### Save Slot 1-10

Saves a state and sets the current slot to the specified slot.

## Load State

### Load Current Slot

Loads a state from the currently selected slot.

The same rules apply as for saving a state, with some additional exceptions.

If a movie is being recorded or played back, loading a state created in another
movie (or none at all) might cause a desync and requires user confirmation.

If the desired savestate was created on another ROM, loading it might
destabilize the emulator and thus also requires user confirmation.

### Load from File

Loads a state from a file.

### Load Slot 1-10

Loads a state and sets the current slot to the specified slot.

## Current State Slot

### Slot 1-10

Sets the current slot to the specified slot.

## Undo Load State

Restores the game state prior to the most recent state load.

# Options

## Full Screen

Toggles the full-screen mode.

This operation is implemented by the video plugin and can vary in quality and
stability.

## Plugin Settings

### Video Settings

Shows the settings dialog for the currently selected video plugin.

### Audio Settings

Shows the settings dialog for the currently selected audio plugin.

### Input Settings

Shows the settings dialog for the currently selected input plugin.

### RSP Settings

Shows the settings dialog for the currently selected RSP plugin.

## Statusbar

Shows or hides the statusbar.

## Settings

Shows the settings dialog.

# Movie

## Start Movie Recording...

Shows the movie dialog, allowing you to specify various parameters about the
movie before starting a recording.

## Start Movie Playback...

Shows the movie dialog, allowing you to choose a movie.

If a movie is being recorded or played back already, the task will be stopped
without a prompt.

If emulation isn't running, the emulator will try to find and use the most
appropriate ROM in your ROM library (as specified by
`Options > Settings... > Directories > Rombrowser`). Should no matching ROM be
found, an error message will be displayed.

## Continue Movie Recording

Engages recording mode if playback is active.

## Stop Movie

Stops playing back or recording a movie.

## Create Movie Backup

Creates a backup of the current movie.

## Recent Movies

Contains a list of the most recently played or recorded movies, with the
latest ones at the top.

The list can be frozen, which prevents it from being changed, or reset, which
clears all items.

## Loop Movie Playback

Enables or disables movie playback looping.

If enabled, movies will restart from the beginning once they've played to the
end.

## Read-Only

Enables or disables read-only mode.

If enabled, rerecording is disabled and it becomes impossible to modify the
currently playing movie.

This means that loading a savestate created during the currently playing movie
won't begin recording from the point of the savestate onwards, but keep the
playback state. Additionally, the Piano Roll also enters read-only mode and
disallows modification of inputs.

## Wait at Movie End

Toggles waiting at movie end.

If enabled, the emulator will pause at the last frame of a movie during
playback and not allow unpausing.

# Utilities

## Command Palette

Shows the command palette.

## Piano Roll

Shows the Piano Roll dialog.

(TODO: Needs separate page)

## Cheats...

Shows the Cheats dialog.

(TODO: Needs separate page)

## Seek...

Shows the Seeker dialog.

Requires movie recording or playback to be active.

Allows navigating to a specific frame in a movie.

The target frame input must follow the seek frame format:

- Absolute mode (e.g.: `490`, seeks to frame 490 in the movie)
- Now-relative mode (e.g.: `+100`, seeks to 100 frames from now, or `-100`,
  which seeks to 100 frames before the current frame)
- End-relative mode (e.g.: `^80`, seeks to the 80th-to-last frame)

As seek operations can be long-running, the seeker will display the progress
until the operation is finished. Closing the seeker will stop any ongoing seek
operation.

## Usage Statistics

Shows statistics about your usage of the program.

Currently reports total playtime (measured in game time) and total rerecords.

## Core Information

Shows the address of the RDRAM buffer and prompts you to copy an auto-generated
Config.xml entry for [STROOP](https://github.com/SM64-TAS-ABC/STROOP) to the
clipboard.

## Start Trace Logger...

Starts the trace logger.

The trace logger can generate logs for both the interpreted and recompiled
cores.

The log format, either text or binary, can be chosen by the user.

## Stop Trace Logger

Stops the trace logger.

## Video Capture

### Start Capture...

Starts a video capture with the current capture settings.

### Start From Preset...

Starts a video capture with the current capture settings and using the last
selected codec preset.

Requires a non-preset capture to have been started prior.

Only affects capture with the VFW encoder.

### Stop Capture

Stops the currently running video capture.

## Take Screenshot

Takes a screenshot of the current game view.

This operation is implemented by the video plugin and can vary in quality and
stability.

# Help

## Check For Updates

Checks for updates by comparing the running program's version to that of the
latest GitHub release.

If an update is available, you will get an option to download the new
executable.

## About

Shows information about the program.

# Lua Script

## Show Instances

Shows the Lua Instances dialog.

(TODO: Needs separate page)

## Recent Scripts

Contains a list of the most recently used scripts, with the latest ones at the
top.

The list can be frozen, which prevents it from being changed, or reset, which
clears all items.

## Stop All

Stops all running Lua scripts.

## Close All

Stops all running Lua scripts and removes them from the instance list.
