Capturing a gameplay video using Mupen64's capture functionality is recommended
over using external capture software such as OBS, as the video and audio streams
are guaranteed to be steady and clean.

This page details some tips for capturing.

# 1. Choose a video plugin

Unless you need special functionality from other plugins, use the bundled **TAS Video** plugin - it has the best compatibility and stability for capturing.

# 2. Encoder Setup

For high-performance capture, you'll want to select the FFmpeg encoder in the settings (`Settings > Capture > Encoder`).

By default, Mupen64 will look for FFmpeg in the `C:\ffmpeg` directory, but this can be changed at `Settings > Capture > FFmpeg Path`.

To install FFmpeg, download the
[latest release build](https://www.gyan.dev/ffmpeg/builds/ffmpeg-release-full.7z)
and extract it to your `C:\` drive.

If FFmpeg is still not detected by Mupen, check that the FFmpeg path in the
Mupen settings matches the path in the filesystem.

# 3. Choose a mode

It's generally recommended to only use the Hybrid capture mode, unless you have
special requirements.

# 4. Start Capture

To start a capture, invoke `Utilities > Video Capture > Start Capture...`.

# Troubleshooting

## The recording is black but has audio

Check that you have selected a capture mode compatible with your use-case. It's
recommended to use the Hybrid capture mode.

If using FFmpeg, verify that your encoding parameters are valid and accepted by
FFmpeg by checking the debug output.

## Mupen crashes after a few frames have gone by

If you are encoding at large resolutions using VFW, Mupen might have run out of
memory.

Try using FFmpeg instead.

If you are encoding at large resolutions using FFmpeg, the memory pressure can
be very high during the first 30 frames of capture, leaving Mupen to operate
with barely a few megabytes of memory.

Avoid performing any action in the UI, such as opening dialogs or starting movie
playback.

## I am getting the error "Audio frequency changed during capture. The capture will be stopped."

Mupen64 doesn't support resetting across ROMs during a capture. 

Verify that you're not starting the wrong ROM accidentally.
